# ML To Make Sense of Biological Big Data In Drug Discovery

This is our academic project done under Dr. Amrita Sisodia in CO202 Database Management System.

Scientists have been working over years to assemble and accumulate data from biological sources to find solutions for many principal questions. Continuous explosion of information both from biomedical and healthcare sources calls for urgent solutions. Healthcare data needs to be closely combined with biomedical research data to make it more effective in providing personalized medicine and better treatment procedures. Therefore, big data analytics would help in integrating large data sets for proper management, decision-making, and cost-effectiveness in any medical/healthcare organization. We will be using ChEMBL database ChEMBL or ChEMBLdb which is a manually curated chemical database of bioactive molecules with drug-like properties. It is maintained by the European Bioinformatics Institute, of the European Molecular Biology Laboratory, based at the Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, UK. Traditional databases are only useful in handling and storing small amounts of data. As the data becomes complex and unstructured, traditional databases fail to extract knowledge from it. Big data technology comes with a promise to provide using terabytes of data to derive useful insights to the medical field, thereby leading to enhancement of the clinical outcomes and improvement of potential healthcare outcomes. There is always a concern with the compromise on data quality to manage hard deadlines. Even after proper analysis, data validation becomes the issue. 

To overcome the preceding challenges, the data needs to be analyzed efficiently and at minimum costs. Machine Learning serves as the best possible solution towards reducing the increasing costs as well as in the establishment of better doctor-physician relationships. ML and BDA can together be used for several healthcare-based applications including treatments for cancer, many rare diseases leading the way towards personalized medications. Efficient data mining techniques can provide with endless possibilities for data model analysis to reveal patterns that can be used by healthcare professionals in forecasting, diagnosis and treatment of patients. You can follow our Step By Step presentation for better understanding:-

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1TY55RfyY3Nd1BMrOzJ5TEfIDQI6JkoZX/view?usp=sharing
